# GATE_Thesis
GATE, Python and ROOT scripts for simulations and analysis in MSc thesis. All GATE scripts include macro files that describe the detector (using the CT framework), readout, source, verbosity, visualisation and extra geometry, unified in the main macro file. The output folder includes the necessary ROOT/Python scripts to analyse the data (e.g. main ROOT detector output, phase space actor ROOT output, dose actor mhd files).

There are 5 simulations performed:

1- Am241:  Consists of an Am241 gamma point source (with known discrete gamma energies only) and the detector placed at an SDD of 54 cm. The files there include the implemented input spectrum. Output folder includes .C file that extracts ROOT data to txt, the experimental spectrum, and a .py file to plot.

2- NeutronDetection: Consists of a monoenergetic neutron point source, the Gd filter and the detector. Simulates neutron detection in CdTe in presence and absence of a Gd2O3 filter as a converting material, and the physical processes taking place at different energies. Neutron energies implemented can be changed to 100 eV, 1 keV, 10 keV, 100 keV, 1 MeV, 10 MeV and 100 MeV. Main F and NF files correspond to filtered and not filtered detector. Output folder includes .C file to extract ROOT data to txt. analyse_energies.py needs data from ROOT main output whereas particles and processes Python scripts need the txt output from get_particles and get_processes.C.

3- AmBeExperiment: Consists of an AmBe neutron point source immersed in a water phantom, with the use of the Gd filter and the detector at the same SDD as the Am241 experiment. The AmBe input spectrum is provided. The output folder includes the same type of scripts as the Am241 experiment along with the experimental data acquired by JC Khong to compare by plotting via the .py script.

4- ProtonBeam: Consists of a proton pencil beam of a specified nominal energy of 100 MeV going through a water phantom. The specifications of the proton beam are described in the source macro file. The output folder includes .C files to extract the data from the Phase Space actor ROOT file that is generated. In addition, the analyse_primaries and analyse_secondaries Python scripts produce the plots from the main ROOT information. The Dose2D script takes the mhd files and returns a 2D dose distribution for protons, gammas and neutrons. The PhantomParticles script obtains bar graphs for processes and particles created in the phantom. The Z pos script takes the secondary particle production position information and plots it with Bragg peak obtained with the Bragg peak python script.

5- RadICAL: Divided in two parts. The first one is a point source (either gamma or neutron), the same water phantom as proton beam experiment, the Gd filter fixed at 2 cm from the scanning system, and the detector rotating from 0 to 180ยบ from the X axis. The second one consists of a continuous source (gamma or neutron), the water phantom, the filter and the rotating detector. The energy spectra of the sources is precisely the result of the proton beam simulation, and the continuous sources are built by creating N cylindrical sources, each of thickness dZ that cover the complete proton range R. Each cylindrical source has a different activity value, depending on the depth-dependent production probability that is obtained in the proton beam simulation as well. The aim of this set is to test the RadICAL method for both point and continuous sources in presence and absence of the filter, in order to evaluate its feasibility to return a proton range value via secondary particle flux. The results from proton beam simulation are provided to create the sources. The point and continuous macro files for gammas and neutrons are provided. The .C file in the output folder extracts energy and rotation angle histograms from main ROOT output, and the .py script plots and fits the RadICAL curves.
